- [Instructor] Okay, next one is final fields.
Okay, how do final fields look like
in JSON serialization?
Let's go there and make sure we go right up
and create a final variable.
So I'm gonna say "public final", "string",
and let's declare the user type.
It's a final variable, which is why
I have used that naming convention.
The convention is the always
the variable name is going to be all in uppercase, right?
All characters in uppercase.
So let's give it a value, I'll say, "admin".
Let's say this user is the admin tag.
Okay, I'm setting a value right there
because it's a final field.
Right? The Java concept.
Now let's come down, and let's see that
when I try to serialize the user object,
whether that final field shows up or not.
So let's go ahead and run this...
Yes it does.
So final fields totally work
for JSON Binding API.
That's good. Next is static fields.
So let's say I want to put a static field right up there,
I want to go ahead and count
the number of users in my system.
I will make a field, let's say,
"public static...
"int counter"...
Set it to zero initially, and let's go down,
run this file again,
and check whether the static field shows up...
It does not.
Static fields do not show up
when the serialization process happens with JSON Binding.
It's a static field, and the logical explanation will be
since static field is on the class level,
you will not have it on the user instance level,
and that's why it doesn't care for serialization.
That's the logical explanation for it.
Okay, and the last one, transient field.
Let's see how transient field behaves.
Let's go up...
Let's declare one more field on line 25,
and I'm gonna say "public transient"...
Let's say, "boolean type"...
And say "isMember"...
We do not want to mention this information,
that's why we're taking it as transient.
So we'll say false...
Okay, and let's find out whether the isMember property
is going to show up in the serialization process.
Let's go down, run the file again...
Yeah, so it does not show up.
So we already know this fundamental concept, don't we?
When we talk about the transient modifier in Java platform,
the transient modifier is specifically going to be allocated
to those fields for which you do not want
the serialization process to happen, right?
In Java, of course you have this concept of serialization,
where you can serialize an object to an external file.
And if you do not want to serialize certain properties
of your objects, you always mark them as transient.
And JSON Binding API respects that rule,
and hence when you mark a field as transient,
it does not take that into consideration
for the serialization process.
Okay, so that's what JSON Binding employs
as visibility settings for your fields.
We'll just quickly remind ourselves that
whenever you talk about the user Bean,
or any Bean for that matter,
the getter method for all the properties,
that's the one that the JSON Binding is going to use
during serialization.
However, when it deserializes your object,
it is going to employ the setter method.
So deserialization is creating an instance,
taking the values from the JSON document,
and setting it to your fields,
so it will require the setter.
But when it does serialization,
it wants to write them to a string or a file
so it will get the values of your properties,
and that's why you need the getter method.
So that's all folks for the visibility settings,
we'll see the remaining parts in the next videos.